---
title: A fractured population
last_modif: 2018-09-28
tags: [n968]
---
Some might wonder why affluent individuals would rather want a fractured
population busy bickering within itself than an united population. Well, because
they'd be fucked! Where individuals may retain great wealth without creating
value, there is an establishment. As would any self-interested individual do,
they will fervently resist any possible disturbance to the system that
perpetuates them, for the general good or bad.

Scrutinizing or questioning the usefulness of their existence and contributions
to society would likely cause these to be called into question, at their
expense. It's maybe best for them to keep people distracted with trivialities so
they won't bother wondering about more significant sources of problems for their
lives.

Hateful rhetoric is spewed by the many who do not want to see the wounds of
fracture ever heal. For instance, there's the media, supposedly there to inform
or entertain people, but many stories of which are filled with content I believe
are meant to animate hate into people -- or to make people stressed out when
they should not be.

People have to stop depending on others, on flawed leadership, and false hopes.
They have to stop listening to the misinformation brought to them by people that
do not have their good in mind. They have to look into themselves and say firmly
that they will not hate. They will not hate people, even if these people hate
them, think differently, look differently, make stupid mistakes.

I may blame various entities, but the reality is that hate and division will
never stop if people never decide to take it upon themselves to take the first
step and stop hating others, about which they may not actually know anything.

People have to stop looking at others for hope and guidance, stop comparing
themselves to people they decide are worse than them. They have to look at
themselves, acknowledge their flaws, and look in their heart, and decide that,
despite whatever others will do, they'll keep it in good standing and won't give
way to the temptation of hatred. I'm saying here that we should not waste energy
hating people; this does not mean we should be tolerating bad people.

You should also listen to people you don't like. You can't just say they're
wrong because they think differently. I used to have strong opinions (you can
read that as "being somewhat ignorant and bigoted"), but then I started to
listen to people I did not want to hear. It's like doing things that you would
rather not do; it takes strength and spirit, and is difficult, but in the end,
the wider perspective and experience gained might be very beneficial.

I started listening to people I would before simply avoid and realized what they
were saying made sense. They just had a different approach to solving a similar
problem. (This does not mean that all people who think differently make sense.)

You can't just decide that you're right and others are wrong. You need to accept
criticism. I know from many things that I have done, not just arguing, that one
might think they're doing something right, so they won't want to try anything
new that they think might bring them down. But facing new challenges, seeing new
ideas, although difficult at first, might make what you thought was good or bad
appear less obviously so in light of newly acquired insight.