---
title: The institution of education
last_modif: 2018-09-22
tags: [n117, n168, n355, n514, n545, n689, n690, n740, n961, n978]
---
It seems education is one of those things that look great on paper, but isn't so
great in practice. It's one of those things people fantasize about and think is
great without actually really knowing what it is. I think that's common. Some
people want to believe that something good could be reality so much that they
are not willing to analyze it lest it upsets their fantasy.

It's my opinion that the skills mostly developed while in school are obedience
and learning things by heart. You have spew back at the exam what you were told
you had to. I don't think you really learn how to think there. Or at least not
for the real world. Maybe within the framework that has been set up by theory
and that you're told you must dutifully accept as being representative of
reality. But that's another discussion...

Politicians sell us the idea that education is important because it leads to
higher-paying and better jobs. But it seems, given the nature of capitalism,
that even if the system was successful in getting everybody to get the best
education they could get, there wouldn't even be enough of these jobs to be
filled and many people would still be left having to do the jobs it seems the
privileged regard as lowly. It's actually a good thing for the system that
people drop out, get discouraged, or don't have the money or ambition! It
legitimizes it and other unfortunate aspects of our society.

I think success in life is mostly based on luck. By success, I mean attaining a
certain level of ease, or privilege, in society because of one's wealth. Some
people are born rich, others not. Unlike what it seems like many people, perhaps
unwittingly, believe, the way and where one is born is not their own choice, so
if it happens to be good, they were lucky, and otherwise not.

There are inequalities of wealth in our society, which probably has disastrous
consequences for it in terms of possibly wasted potential. The privileged have
some ways to legitimize these inequalities and one of them is education.

Attainment of education is correlated with wealth. Children raised in families
were the parents are highly educated are likely to be highly educated. They're
born rich and are likely to be rich.

The privileged will use their attainment of education as legitimizing their
wealth. However, many of them were simply lucky to be born rich. They will
pretend they had the same struggles as everyone else that's not privileged, but
that they successfully worked through difficulties. In reality, it could just be
a case of having had an easier time.

In some cases, level of education seems like a way to rationalize disdain toward
poorer people: "they're lazy", "didn't work hard", etc. Yet, it could just be
those at ease who are like that; they just happened to be born in a position
where it didn't really mattered because the system plays in their favor.